Even if you don't find yourself among enterprises ready to embark on a digital transformation journey,
our next category of use cases around Big Data may still be applicable to you.
We are, of course, talking about cost savings.
The application of Hadoop and Big Data to what already exists in the enterprise.
Unlike our previous categories, these use cases don't seek to create a revolution, but rather to optimize the existing assets.
They also provide a more gentle introduction of Big Data technologies into the existing IT landscape.
So, let's take a look at the top three categories around cost saving.
The first category is focused on turning your enterprise's cold data storage into an active archive.
This could range from making historical records available to business analysts, all the way to offloading some of the data from mainframes and other legacy systems.
All of that will dramatically lower the total cost of ownership of data and help your enterprise optimize its bottom line.
Another popular category is ETL Onboard.
ETL here stands for Extract, Transform, and Load. Think about it this way:
since the traditional enterprise data warehouse solutions use 60% of their cycles on average just to prepare data for a particular schema,
moving that phase, which is exactly the ETL phase to Hadoop,
allows those systems to use their costly resources for what they were really intended, which is basically storage and analytics.
Hadoop itself has a schema-on-read architecture, which means that you can store data in its native format,
and retrieve whatever data you need to analyze, regardless of its source, format, or data structure.
Once again, you are using Hadoop and Big Data not instead of, but next to existing EDW solutions.
Thus, the total cost of ownership of data in your enterprise is likely to be reduced.
Finally, the most advanced cost saving use case is to enrich existing data with newly available data.
With these data enrichment capabilities, companies can incorporate publicly available datasets from sources like Twitter, Facebook, open government data,
or offer new products for services.
They can also prevent fraud by finding new data correlations that point to bad behavior.
As you can see, even if you start with cost savings as your main goal, you pretty quickly get to a rather sophisticated use of Big Data,
and can start providing value way beyond the initial cost saving objective.